---
layout: post
title: HTML & CSS NOTES 
---
**What Are HTML & CSS?**<br/>
HTML, HyperText Markup Language, gives content structure and meaning by defining that content as, for example,
headings, paragraphs, or images. <br/>
CSS, or Cascading Style Sheets, is a presentation language created to style the
appearance of content—using, for example, fonts or colors.<br/>

 **Understanding Common HTML Terms**<br/>
**1.Elements**<br/>
-*Elements* are designators that define the structure and content of objects within a page.
e.g <a><br/>

**2.Tags**
-The use of *less-than* and *greater-than* angle brackets surrounding an element creates what is known as a *tag*.<br/>
-Tags most commonly occur in pairs of **opening and closing tags**.<br/>
e.g <a>...</a> (Anchor Element)<br/>

**3.Attributes**
-Attributes are properties used to provide additional information about an element.<br/>
<ul>
 <li>Id attribute – identifies an element</li>
 <li>class attribute - classifies an element</li>
 <li>src attribute</li>
 </ul>

 **Setting Up the HTML Document Structure.**<br/>
- All HTML documents have a required structure that includes the following declaration and elements:
<ul>
 <li><!DOCTYPE html><li/>
 <li><html></li>
 <li><head></li>
<li><body></li>
</ul>

-The document type declaration, or <!DOCTYPE html>, informs web browsers which version of HTML is being used and is placed at the very beginning of the HTML document.<br/>
-Following the document type declaration, the <html> element signifies the beginning of the document.<br/>
-Inside the <html> element, the <head> element identifies the top of the document, including any metadata (accompanying information about the page).<br/>
-The content inside the <head> element is not displayed on the web page itself. Instead, it may include the document title ,links to any external files, or any other beneficial metadata.<br/>
-All of the visible content within the web page will fall within the <body> element.<br/>

**Understanding Common CSS Terms**<br/>
**1.Selectors**<br/>
-A selector designates exactly which element or elements within our HTML to target and apply styles (such as color, size, and position) to.<br/>
-Selectors generally target an attribute value, such as an *id* or *class* value, or target the type of element.
-Within CSS, selectors are followed with **curly brackets**, {}, which encompass the styles to be applied to the selected element.<br/>

**2.Properties**<br/>
-Once an element is selected, a property determines the styles that will be applied to that element.<br/>
-Property names fall after a selector, within the curly brackets, {}, and immediately preceding a **colon**, (:)<br/>
-There are numerous properties we can use, such as background, color, font-size, height and width.<br/>

**3.Values**<br/>
-Values determine the behavior of that property.<br/>
-Values can be identified as the text between the colon, (:), and semicolon, (;).<br/>

**Working with Selectors**<br/>
**1.Type Selectors**<br/>
-Type selectors target elements by their *element type*; i.e should we wish to target all division elements, <div>, we would use a type selector of div.<br>

**2.Class Selectors**<br/>
-Class selectors allow us to select an element based on the element’s class attribute value.<br/>
-Class selectors are a little more specific than type selectors, as they select a particular group of elements rather than all elements of one type.<br/>
-Class selectors allow us to apply the same styles to different elements at once by using the same class attribute value across multiple elements.<br/>

**3.ID Selectors (<id>)**<br/>
-ID selectors are even more precise than class selectors, as they target only one unique element at a time.<br/>
-ID selectors use an element’s id attribute value as a selector.<br/>
-Id attribute values can only be used once per page. If used they should be reserved for significant elements.<br>

**Using CSS Resets**
-CSS resets take every common HTML element with a predefined style and provide one unified style for all browsers.<br/>
-These resets generally involve removing any sizing, margins, paddings, or additional styles and toning these values down.<br/>
-Because CSS cascades from top to bottom—more on that soon—our reset needs to be at the very top of our style sheet.<br/>
-Doing so ensures that those styles are read first and that all of the different web browsers are working from a common baseline e.g the Eric Meyer’s reset.<br/>
